---
layout: post
title: nSTRIDE
category: sports
---

## Study Contact:  
Kaitlyn Shank
434-243-5653

### IRB-HSR 20006
Clinic Visit Registration:
20006-Gwathmey

##  Inclusion Criteria

- Male or female ≥ 21 and ≤ 80 years old at time of screening.
- Willingness and ability to comply with the study procedures and visit schedules and ability to follow oral and written instructions.
- A standing radiograph of the knee showing a Kellgren Lawrence grade of 2 to 4 and an absence of severe osteoarthritis (defined as advanced stage osteoarthritis, including large osteophytes, chronic fractures or bone remodeling, severe deformity or bone attrition, and/or bone-on-bone contact indicative of severe osteoarthritis/full thickness cartilage loss), as confirmed by the central imaging laboratory.
- Body mass index ≤ 40 kg/m2.
- A WOMAC LK 3.1 pain subscale total score ≥ 9 and ≤19.
- Has undergone at least one prior conservative osteoarthritis treatment (e.g. physical therapy, simple analgesics).
- Signed an institutional review board approved informed consent.

##  Exclusion Criteria

- Presence of clinically observed active infection in the index knee.
- Presence of symptomatic osteoarthritis in the non-study knee; if unclear then the WOMAC LK 3.1 pain subscale for the non-index knee must be ≤ 5.0.
- Diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, Reiter’s syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, or arthritis secondary to other inflammatory diseases; HIV, viral hepatitis; chondrocalcinosis, Paget’s disease, or villonodular synovitis.
- Clinically symptomatic patellofemoral chondromalacia (i.e. knee pain in the anterior knee only) or diagnosis of isolated patellofemoral OA.
- Diagnosed with leukemia, known presence of metastatic malignant cells, or ongoing or planned chemotherapeutic treatment.
- Disease of spine, hip or other lower extremity joints judged by the investigator to be contributing to the pain in the index knee (i.e. sciatica, nerve pain, hip OA). Note: Patients with knee replacement at the contralateral knee or hip replacement in either hip may be enrolled provided there is sufficient pain relief after knee replacement or hip replacement that analgesics are not required.
- Untreated symptomatic injury of the index knee (e.g., acute traumatic injury, anterior cruciate ligament injury, clinically symptomatic meniscus injury characterized by mechanical issue such as locking or catching).
- Any condition other than OA of the index knee which, in the opinion of the investigator, affects the ability to ambulate to a sufficient degree to interfere with the assessment of the safety and treatment effects of the study injection.
- Presence of surgical hardware or other foreign body intended to treat arthritis or cartilage-related pathology in the index knee.
- Previous cartilage repair procedure on the injured cartilage surface (i.e., microfracture, osteoarticular transfer system (OATS) and autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI)) of the index knee.
- Arthroscopy or open surgery of the index knee within 6 months of screening.
- Intra-articular steroid injection in the index knee within 3 months of screening.
- Intra-articular hyaluronic acid injection in the index knee within 6 months of screening.
- Other intra-articular therapy in the index knee within 6 months prior to screening.
- Orally administered systemic steroid use within 2 weeks of screening.
- Planned/anticipated surgery of the index knee during the study period.
- A history of local anesthetic allergy.
- Use of systemic immunosuppressants within 6 weeks of screening.
- Currently on anticoagulant therapy, such as Warfarin, vitamin K antagonists, direct thrombin inhibitors, or factor Xa inhibitors or on potent anti-platelet therapy, such as GPIIb-IIIa antagonists, Par-1 antagonists or dual anti-platelet therapy, i.e. an ADP receptor antagonist in combination with aspirin.
- Any documented clinically significant degree of cognitive impairment or other condition, finding, or psychiatric illness at screening which, in the opinion of the investigator, could compromise patient safety or interfere with the assessment of the safety and treatment effects of the study injection.
- Skin breakdown at the knee where the injection is planned to take place.
- Pregnant or nursing mothers or women planning on getting pregnant during the time they will be participating in the study.
- Known drug or alcohol dependence currently or within the last year.
- Participated in any investigational drug or device trial within 30 days prior to screening.
- Participated in any investigational biologic trial within 60 days prior to screening.

## Study Summary
- Screening Visit: PA Fixed Flexion XR (using QUaP)*, knee exam, inclusion/exclusion, pregnancy test (if applicable), PROs, medication use, MRI (once subject has been confirmed by sponsor of qualification based on XR)
- Blood Draw and Injection (within 28 days of screening): blood draw, ultrasound confirmed injection, PROs (before injection procedure)
- 1 Month (±7 days): PROs, medication use, AE assessment
- 3 Month (±14 days): PROs, medication use, AE assessment
- 6 Month (±14 days): PROs, medication use, AE assessment
- 12 Month (±28 days): PA Fixed flexion XR (using QUaP), MRI, PROs, medication use, AE assessment, study exit (if not getting second injection
- Optional 2nd Injection (within 14 days of 12mo. visit): Pregnancy test (if applicable), blood draw, injection (ultrasound confirmation not needed)
- 2nd Injection 1 Month f/u (±7 days): PROs, medication use, AE assessment, study exit
 
*X-ray within 6 months can be used

## Payment
$100 total – given as lump sum at 12 month visit, another $25 if they get second injection and come for 1mo. follow up

## Covered Expenses
All study procedures are covered (visits, x-ray, MRI, injections)
